Documentation for dynamic scaling of Argo CD application controller. (#67913)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/gitops-argo-cd-dynamic-scaling.adoc

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * argocd_instance/argo-cd-cr-component-properties.adoc

:_content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="gitops-argo-cd-dynamic-scaling_{context}"]

> = Enabling dynamic scaling of shards of the Argo CD Application Controller

Reviewer: Hello @masauso-lungu as per [RHDEVDOCS-5856](https://issues.redhat.com/browse/RHDEVDOCS-5856), this feature is TP so we need to include the TP snippet before approving it, thank you!

Reviewer 2: Thanks, @ekristova for posting the comment as per our discussion. +1 to the comment.

Author: Noted!, Thank you @ekristova.

Author: Addressed!

> By default, the Argo CD Application Controller assigns clusters to shards indefinitely. This static assignment can result in uneven distribution of shards when replicas are added or removed. You can enable dynamic scaling of shards to automatically adjust the number of shards based on the number of clusters managed by the Argo CD Application Controller at a given time. This ensures that shards are well balanced and provide for the optimal use of compute resources.

Reviewer: As I am adding the `round-robin` section, this should be clarified for continuity reasons. But please check with SME if it is correct. Thank you! 
```suggestion
By default, the Argo CD Application Controller assigns clusters to shards indefinitely. If you use the `round-robin` sharding algorithm, this static assignment can result in uneven distribution of shards when replicas are added or removed. You can enable dynamic scaling of shards to automatically adjust the number of shards based on the number of clusters managed by the Argo CD Application Controller at a given time. This ensures that shards are well balanced and provide for the optimal use of compute resources.
```

Reviewer 2: @ekristova Good observation and suggestion!

Author: Addressed. Thank you @ekristova.

Author: > As I am adding the `round-robin` section, this should be clarified for continuity reasons. But please check with SME if it is correct. Thank you!

Hello @ishitasequeira , I have refined and updated the content, kindly review it. Thank you.

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * argocd_instance/argo-cd-cr-component-properties.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="gitops-argo-cd-dynamic-scaling_{context}"]
= Enabling dynamic scaling of shards of the Argo CD Application Controller

> By default, the Argo CD Application Controller assigns clusters to shards indefinitely. If you are using the `round-robin` sharding algorithm, this static assignment can result in uneven distribution of shards, particularly when replicas are added or removed. You can enable dynamic scaling of shards to automatically adjust the number of shards based on the number of clusters managed by the Argo CD Application Controller at a given time. This ensures that shards are well balanced and optmizes the use of compute resources.

Author: I have added supporting resources for the user to understand the general principle of sharding being talked about in this chapter.

> By default, the Argo CD Application Controller assigns clusters to shards indefinitely. If you are using the `round-robin` sharding algorithm, this static assignment can result in uneven distribution of shards, particularly when replicas are added or removed. You can enable dynamic scaling of shards to automatically adjust the number of shards based on the number of clusters managed by the Argo CD Application Controller at a given time. This ensures that shards are well balanced and optmizes the use of compute resources.

Reviewer 3: Thanks!

[IMPORTANT]
====
Dynamic scaling of shards is a Technology Preview feature only. Technology Preview features are not supported with Red Hat production service level agreements (SLAs) and might not be functionally complete. Red Hat does not recommend using them in production. These features provide early access to upcoming product features, enabling customers to test functionality and provide feedback during the development process.

> For more information about the support scope of Red Hat Technology Preview features, see link:https://access.redhat.com/support/offerings/techpreview[Technology Preview Features Support Scope].

Author: Addressed.

Thank you.

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//

> // * argocd_instance/argo-cd-cr-component-properties.adoc

Author: ACK.

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="gitops-argo-cd-dynamic-scaling_{context}"]
= Enabling dynamic scaling of shards of the Argo CD Application Controller

> By default, the Argo CD Application Controller assigns clusters to shards indefinitely. If you are using the `round-robin` sharding algorithm, this static assignment can result in uneven distribution of shards, particularly when replicas are added or removed. You can enable dynamic scaling of shards to automatically adjust the number of shards based on the number of clusters managed by the Argo CD Application Controller at a given time. This ensures that shards are well balanced and optmizes the use of compute resources.

Author: ACK.
Addressed.

> [IMPORTANT]
> ====
> Dynamic scaling of shards is a Technology Preview feature only. Technology Preview features are not supported with Red{nbsp}Hat production service level agreements (SLAs) and might not be functionally complete. Red{nbsp}Hat does not recommend using them in production. These features provide early access to upcoming product features, enabling customers to test functionality and provide feedback during the development process.
> 
> For more information about the support scope of Red{nbsp}Hat Technology Preview features, see link:https://access.redhat.com/support/offerings/techpreview[Technology Preview Features Support Scope].
> ====

Reviewer: Include the TP as follows:
```suggestion
:FeatureName: Dynamic scaling of shards
include::snippets/technology-preview.adoc[]
```

Reviewer: Also, please put it as the first thing, before the introduction right after the title. Thank you!

Author: ACK. 
Addressed.

.Prerequisites
* You have access to the cluster with `cluster-admin` privileges.
* You have access to the {OCP} web console.

> * You have installed the {gitops-title} Operator in your cluster.

Reviewer: Move the prerequisites under the new created sections described in the following comments. Thank you!

Author: ACK.

Addresed!

Thank you.

> .Procedure
> 
> You can enable dynamic scaling of shards by either using the {OCP} web console or the command-line interface.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[id="enabling-dynamic-scaling-of-shards-in-web-console_{context}"]
== Enabling dynamic scaling of shards in web console

You can enable dynamic scaling of shards using the {OCP} web console.

.Prerequisites
* You have installed the {gitops-title} Operator in your cluster.
* You have access to the {OCP} web console.
* You have access to the cluster with `cluster-admin` privileges.

.Procedure
```

Author: ACK.
Addressed.

> * To enable dynamic scaling of shards using the {OCP} web console, complete the following steps:

Reviewer: You can now remove this sentence.
```suggestion

```

Author: Addressed.

. From the the list of *Installed Operators*, select the {gitops-title} Operator, and then click on the *ArgoCD* tab.
. Select the Argo CD instance name for which you want to enable dynamic scaling of shards, for example `openshift-gitops`.
. Click on the *YAML* tab, and then edit and configure the `spec.controller.sharding` properties as follows:
+
.Example Argo CD YAML file with dynamic scaling enabled
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: argoproj.io/v1beta1
kind: ArgoCD
metadata:
  name: openshift-gitops
  namespace: openshift-gitops
spec:
  controller:
    sharding:
      dynamicScalingEnabled: true <1>
      minShards: 1 <2>
      maxShards: 3 <3>
      clustersPerShard: 1 <4>
----
<1> Set `dynamicScalingEnabled` to `true` to enable dynamic scaling.
<2> Set `minShards` to the minimum number of shards that you want to have. The value must be set to `1` or greater.
<3> Set `maxShards` to the maximum number of shards that you want to have. The value must be greater than the value of `minShards`.
<4> Set `clustersPerShard` to the number of clusters that you want to have per shard. The value must be set to `1` or greater.

> . Click *Save* to save the changes.

Author: ACK.

Addressed

> . Click *Save* to save the changes.

Reviewer: . Click *Save*.
+
You get a success notification alert that says: `openshift-gitops has been updated to version <version>`.
+
[NOTE]

If you edit the default `openshift-gitops` instance, the *Managed resource* dialog box is displayed. Click *Save* again to confirm the changes.

> * To enable dynamic scaling of shards using the command-line interface, complete the following steps:

Reviewer: You can now remove this sentence.
```suggestion
[id="enabling-dynamic-scaling-of-shards-using-cli_{context}"]
== Enabling dynamic scaling of shards using CLI

You can enable dynamic scaling of shards using the command-line interface.

.Prerequisites
* You have installed the {gitops-title} Operator in your cluster.
* You have access to the cluster with `cluster-admin` privileges.

.Procedure
```

Author: ACK.
Addressed.

. Log in to the cluster using the `oc` command-line tool as a user with `cluster-admin` privileges.

> . Enable dynamic scaling by running the following command:

Author: ACK.

Addressed

+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc patch argocd <argocd_instance> -n <namespace> --type=merge --patch='{"spec":{"controller":{"sharding":{"dynamicScalingEnabled":true,"minShards":<value>,"maxShards":<value>,"clustersPerShard":<value>}}}}'
----
+
.Example command
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc patch argocd openshift-gitops -n openshift-gitops --type=merge --patch='{"spec":{"controller":{"sharding":{"dynamicScalingEnabled":true,"minShards":1,"maxShards":3,"clustersPerShard":1}}}}' <1>
----
+

> <1> The example command enables dynamic scaling for the `openshift-gitops` Argo CD instance in the `openshift-gitops` namespace, and sets the minimum number of shards to `1`, the maximum number of shards to `3`, and the number of clusters per shard to `1`.

Author: I will look into it.

+
.Example output
[source,terminal]
----
argocd.argoproj.io/openshift-gitops patched
----

> . Verify that dynamic scaling is enabled by running the following command: 

Author: Alright, thank you.

> . Verify that dynamic scaling is enabled by running the following command: 

Reviewer: https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/pull/69199/files#diff-636c8b4f7115acb0e240104942cbd73a3c167cc39f76388f36795abf088443a2R166-R235

+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc get argocd <argocd_instance> -n <namespace> -o jsonpath='{.spec.controller.sharding}'
----
+
.Example command 
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc get argocd openshift-gitops -n openshift-gitops -o jsonpath='{.spec.controller.sharding}'
----
+
.Example output when dynamic scaling of shards is enabled
[source,terminal]
----
{"dynamicScalingEnabled":true,"minShards":1,"maxShards":3,"clustersPerShard":1}
----

> .. Alternatively, you can verify that dynamic scaling is enabled by checking the configured `spec.controller.sharding` properties in the configuration `YAML` file of the Argo CD instance on the {OCP} web console.

Reviewer: Move the verification steps to its respective sections. So the first one stays under CLI, and the second one will no longer be alternative, but the verification step for web console method.

Author: IMO this step is just fine here....... It cannot be used for the web console version, because when you edit the YAML you would have already seen the values you have set there.

Reviewer: @masauso-lungu I do not understand, the verification step says "on the {OCP} web console" so if it cannot be used for the web console, then it does not make sense..

Author: Otherwise if we are talking about the web console, we have to consider a different verification method  which does not involve reviewing the very YAML file you have edited.

Reviewer: Oh yes, I understand that :) that is what I meant when I mentioned that the user sees if the values are added as they are adding it in web console, I do believe that is a good point you made. It just does not seem right to me to include this step in the cli procedure. But it is definitely not a big issue.

What I think is a bigger issue here, as I mentioned, we need to actually add some verification steps to the web console procedure. I do personally think that adding just verification steps that confirm that the values were added is not enough, even for the cli procedure. We should have some behavior that the user can observe in both cli and web console, for example that pod command that would check the number of pod replicas in the cluster, or the `argocd` command that I will update you about once I know if there is an alternative for downstream. I hope I explained myself better now :)  Thank you!

[NOTE]
==== 

> Once you enable dynamic scaling, you cannot manually modify the shard count. The system automatically adjusts the number of shards based on the number of clusters managed by the Argo CD Application Controller at a given time.

Author: ACK.

Addressed.

> ====

Reviewer: Move this note under the introduction so that it is outside the new two sections.

Author: ACK.

Addressed.

[role="_additional-resources"]
[id="additional-resources_argocd-cr-properties"]
== Additional resources
* link:https://docs.openshift.com/gitops/1.11/argocd_instance/argo-cd-cr-component-properties.html#argo-cd-properties_argo-cd-cr-component-properties[Argo CD custom resource properties]

* link:https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/4.14/nodes/pods/nodes-pods-autoscaling.html[Automatically scaling pods with the horizontal pod autoscaler]

> * link:https://argo-cd.readthedocs.io/en/stable/operator-manual/dynamic-cluster-distribution/[Dynamic Cluster Distribution]

Reviewer: You can delete the link.

//
// * declarative_clusterconfig/sharding-clusters-across-argo-cd-application-controller-replicas.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="gitops-argo-cd-dynamic-scaling_{context}"]
= Enabling dynamic scaling of shards of the Argo CD Application Controller

:FeatureName: Dynamic scaling of shards
include::snippets/technology-preview.adoc[]

By default, the Argo CD Application Controller assigns clusters to shards indefinitely. If you are using the `round-robin` sharding algorithm, this static assignment can result in uneven distribution of shards, particularly when replicas are added or removed. You can enable dynamic scaling of shards to automatically adjust the number of shards based on the number of clusters managed by the Argo CD Application Controller at a given time. This ensures that shards are well-balanced and optimizes the use of compute resources.

[NOTE]
==== 
After you enable dynamic scaling, you cannot manually modify the shard count. The system automatically adjusts the number of shards based on the number of clusters managed by the Argo CD Application Controller at a given time.
====

[id="enabling-dynamic-scaling-of-shards-on-the-web-console_{context}"]

> == Enabling dynamic scaling of shards on the web console

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== Enabling dynamic scaling of shards in web console
```

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * argocd_instance/argo-cd-cr-component-properties.adoc

:_content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="gitops-argo-cd-dynamic-scaling_{context}"]
= Enabling dynamic scaling of Shards of the ArgoCD Application Controller

By default, clusters are assigned to shards indefinitely. This static assignment can lead to unbalanced shards when replicas are added or removed. Dynamic scaling of shards allows you to automatically scale up and down the number of shards of the Argo CD Application Controller based on the number of clusters being managed by Argo CD application controller at a given time. This ensures that shards are well balanced and provide for the optimal use of compute resources across all shards.

You can enable dynamic scaling of shards by setting the `Sharding.dynamicScalingEnabled` environment variable to `true` in the `argo-cd-application-controller` Deployment. This feature is disabled by default.

.Prerequisites
You have installed the {gitops-title} Operator in your cluster.

.Procedure

> . Set the `Sharding.dynamicScalingEnabled` environment variable to `true` in the `argo-cd-application-controller` configuration:

Reviewer: Also, I just noticed the section above this new one (Enabling notifications with Argo CD instance) has a similar issue.

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * argocd_instance/argo-cd-cr-component-properties.adoc

:_content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="gitops-argo-cd-dynamic-scaling_{context}"]
= Enabling dynamic scaling of Shards of the Argo CD Application Controller

By default, Argo CD Application Controller assigns clusters to shards indefinitely. This static assignment can result in uneven distribution of shards when replicas are added or removed. You can enable dynamic scaling of shards to automatically adjust the number of shards based on the number of clusters being managed by Argo CD Application Controller at a given time. This ensures that shards are well balanced and provide for the optimal use of compute resources.

.Prerequisites

> * You must have administrator privileges on the cluster.

Author: ACK.

Addressed

* You must have access to the {product-title} web console.
* You must have installed the {gitops-title} Operator in your cluster.

.Procedure

> You can enable dynamic scaling of shards by either using the {product-title} web console or the command-line interface.

Author: ACK. Addressed.

thank you for the catch.

. To enable dynamic scaling of shards using the {product-title} web console, follow the following steps:

> .. In the administator perspective of the {product-title} web console, navigate to **Operators** → **Installed Operators**.

Author: ACK. Thank you for the guidance, @ekristova. I was following the example from existing docs.

Addressed.

> .. In the administator perspective of the {product-title} web console, navigate to **Operators** → **Installed Operators**.

Author: Sure i will check the rendering.

> .. From the the list of **Installed Operators**, select the {gitops-title} Operator, and then click on the **ArgoCD** tab.

Author: My bad... Will update that.

> .. Select the Argo CD instance name for which you want to enable dynamic scaling of shards, for example "openshift-gitops".

Author: ACK.

Addressed.

> .. Click on the **YAML** tab, and then edit and configure the `spec.controller.sharding` properties similar to the following example:

Author: ACK.

I had used 'similar to the following example' in case the user has a custom instance different from the default Argo CD instance installled along side the Operator.

> .. Click on the **YAML** tab, and then edit and configure the `spec.controller.sharding` properties similar to the following example:

Author: @Srivaralakshmi , what do you say?, I need a third opinion here

+

> .Example

Author: ACK.

Addressed

[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: argoproj.io/v1beta1
kind: ArgoCD
metadata:

>   name: argocd-example
>   namespace: openshift-gitops-operator

Reviewer: You mention that the example is going to me `openshift-gitops` instance but then give an example of `argocd-example` instance. It should be consistent here. Namespace should reflect that as well:
```suggestion
  name: openshift-gitops
  namespace: openshift-gitops
```

> spec:
>   controller:
>     sharding:
> 	  dynamicScalingEnabled: true <1>
> 	  minShards: 1 <2>
> 	  maxShards: 3 <3>
> 	  clustersPerShard: 1 <4>
> ----

Reviewer: This is not generating right:
```suggestion
spec:
  controller:
    sharding:
      dynamicScalingEnabled: true <1>
      minShards: 1 <2>
      maxShards: 3 <3>
      clustersPerShard: 1 <4>
----
```

Author: still trying to sort out this... I will see how it will render now.

<1> Set `dynamicScalingEnabled` to `true` to enable dynamic scaling of shards.
<2> Set `minShards` to the minimum number of shards that you want to have. This must be set to `1` or greater.

> <3> Set `maxShards` to the maximum number of shards that you want to have. This must be than `minShards`.

Author: Thank you for the catch.

> <4> Set `clustersPerShard` to the number of clusters that you want to have per shard. This must be set to `1` or greater.

Author: Sounds good...
Will apply it in my next commit.

> .. Click **Save** to save the changes.

Author: ACK.
Addressed.

> . To enable dynamic scaling of shards using the command-line interface, follow the following steps:

Author: ACK.

Addressed

> .. Log in to the cluster using the `oc` command-line tool as a user with administrator privileges.

Author: I will check the rendering and make adjustments if need be.

> .. Log in to the cluster using the `oc` command-line tool as a user with administrator privileges.

Author: I have implemeted a single indentation. I worked locally.

.. Enable dynamic scaling of shards by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc patch argocd openshift-gitops -n openshift-gitops --type=merge --patch='{"spec":{"controller":{"sharding":{"dynamicScalingEnabled":true,"minShards":1,"maxShards":3,"clustersPerShard":1}}}}' <1>
----
+

> <1> Set `dynamicScalingEnabled` to `true` and set the `minShards`, `maxShards`, and `clustersPerShard` properties as required. For more information about these properties, see the previous example in step *d.* for using the {product-title} web console.

Author: I will put a section for addition resources to point to the table, where information about these parameters are given

+
.Example output
[source,terminal]
----
argocd.argoproj.io/openshift-gitops patched
----

.. Verify that dynamic scaling of shards is enabled by running the following command: 
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc get argocd openshift-gitops -n openshift-gitops -o jsonpath='{.spec.controller.sharding}'

> ----

Author: No it should not be different.... The font has to be the same accross the docs

> ----

Author: On the preview page it is rendering properly

> $ oc get argocd openshift-gitops -n openshift-gitops -o jsonpath='{.spec.controller.sharding}'

Author: ACK.

Implemented.

+
.Example output when dynamic scaling of shards is enabled
[source,terminal]
----
{"dynamicScalingEnabled":true,"minShards":1,"maxShards":3,"clustersPerShard":1}

> ----

Author: No it should not be different, i will investigate why that is happening.

> ----

Author: @ishitasequeira , have you checked the rendering on the preview page?

... Alternatively, you can verify that dynamic scaling of shards is enabled by checking the configured `spec.controller.sharding` properties in the configuration `YAML` file of the Argo CD instance on the {product-title} web console.

[NOTE]
==== 

> Once you enable dynamic scaling of shards, you cannot manually adjust the number of shards. The number of shards is automatically scaled based on the number of clusters being managed by Argo CD Application Controller at a given time.

Reviewer 2: @masauso-lungu and @ekristova: Good job! 

@ekristova +1 to that comment.
@masauso-lungu Try rephrasing this line.

> Once you enable dynamic scaling of shards, you cannot manually adjust the number of shards. The number of shards is automatically scaled based on the number of clusters being managed by Argo CD Application Controller at a given time.

Author: ACk.

Resolved. Thank you @ekristova and @Srivaralakshmi
